# RectRange
a MATLAB function for obtaining coordinate range of a selected rectangle in figure 

**Warning!** Do not use this function upon your final prepared/optimized figure, because it will manipulate Axes Aspect Ratio.

```[Xrange,Yrange]=rectrange(xgrid,ygrid,f)``` lets you select a rectangle in the current figure using the mouse. The figure has to be generated based on a rectangle grid (X, Y) which is usually produced by using function ```MESHGRID```. Then the coordinate ranges of the selected rectangle (Not its position.Thus, its different from function ```GETRECT```) based on grid (xgrid,ygrid) will be derived.This would be useful when you have a map generated based on grids of longitudes latitudes and want to know longitude/latitude range of a certain region. However, this function won't work when the map is produced by using M_Map toolbox due to projection issues.

#### Inputs
```xgrid,ygrid``` - The rectangle grid on which the figure bases. Usually, they
              are generated by ```[xgrid,ygrid]=meshgrid(xgv,ygv)```. See 
              *meshgrid.m*.
              
```f```           - The handle of the figure. For exmaple, ```f = figure;```

```'precise'```   - Default output mode. The precise coordinate ranges will be
              obtained no matter there are intervals between grid points.
              
```'nearest'```   - Other than 'presice', the coordinate ranges of your 
              selected rectangle in x- and y-direction will be derived 
              from 4 grid points close to each vertex of the rectangle.

#### Outputs
```Xrange```      - The range of selected rectangle in x-direction.

```Yrange```      - The range of selected rectangle in y-direction.

For example,
```matlab
     [x,y]=meshgrid([0.5:400.5],[-100.1:100.1]);
     z=peaks(x,y);
     f=figure;
     contour(x,y,z);
     axis equal
     [rx,ry]=rectrange(x,y,f);
```
One can test this function by uncommenting lines 105, 106, 124-126, 131 and 143. The rectangle you selected and its two vertices will be drawn in your figure.

2018/07/29
